
Slackware Linux CD-ROM Installation HOWTO
Patrick Volkerding <volkerdi@slackware.com>
v11.0, 2006-09-13

This document covers installation of the Slackware(R) distribution of the
Linux operating system from the Slackware CD-ROM.
  ______________________________________________________________________


  Table of Contents


  1. Introduction

     1.1 Sources of documentation

  2. Hardware requirements

  3. Slackware Space Requirements

     3.1 Preparing a Partition for Slackware
     3.2 Booting the Slackware CD-ROM
     3.3 Using Linux fdisk to create Linux partitions

  4. Installing the Slackware distribution

     4.1 The ADDSWAP option
     4.2 The TARGET option
     4.3 The SOURCE option
     4.4 The SELECT option
     4.5 The INSTALL option
     4.6 The CONFIGURE option
     4.7 LILO
     4.8 Networking

  5. Booting the installed Slackware system

  6. Post-installation configuration

     6.1 /etc/rc.d/rc.modules
     6.2 Configuring the X Window System
     6.3 Hardware acceleration with X
     6.4 User Accounts

  7. For more information

  8. Trademarks

  ______________________________________________________________________

1.  Introduction

Linux is a multiuser, multitasking operating system that was developed by
Linus Torvalds and hundreds of volunteers around the world working over
the Internet.

The Linux operating system now runs on several machine architectures,
including ARMs, Intel 80x86, Sparc, 68K, PowerPC, DEC Alpha, MIPS, nd
others.  The Slackware distribution of Linux runs on most PC processors
compatible with the Intel 386 or better, including (but not limited to)
Intel 386, 486, Celeron, Pentium I/MMX/Pro/II/III/Xeon/4, AMD
386/486/K5/K6/K6-II/K6-III/Duron/Athlon/Athlon XP/Athlon MP, Athlon 64,
Cyrix 386/486/5x86/6x86/M-II, Via Cyrix III, Via C3, and the Transmeta
Crusoe and Efficeon.  Linux is modeled after the UNIX(R) operating
system.  The Slackware distribution contains a full program development
system with support for C, C++, Fortran-77, LISP, and other languages,
full TCP/IP networking with NFS, SLIP, PPP, a full implementation of the
X Window System, and much more.


1.1.  Sources of Documentation

If you're new to Slackware, you'll be happy to know there is a *lot* of
documentation and help available both on the Internet and on the CD-ROM
itself.

One of the primary sources of Linux information is a collection of
documents known as the "Linux HOWTOs."  You can find these on the Internet
on http://ibiblio.org, in the /pub/Linux/docs/HOWTO directory. These are
also installed on a Slackware machine in /usr/doc/Linux-HOWTOs/.

Other useful documentation at that site includes:

/pub/Linux/docs/FAQ  -- answers to Frequently Asked Questions about Linux

/pub/Linux/docs/LDP/ -- Manuals written by the Linux Documentation Project.

/pub/Linux/docs/LDP/install-guide -- Matt Welsh's "Linux Installation and
                        Getting Started" book.  Although the installation
                        information contained is a little bit dated, it's
                        still filled with useful information.  If you're
                        unfamiliar with UNIX, you'll find this guide to
                        be a handy introduction.


2.  Hardware Requirements

Most PC hardware will work fine with Slackware, but some Plug-and-Play
devices can be tricky to set up.  In some cases you can work around this
by letting DOS initialize the card and then starting Slackware with the
Loadlin utility.  Setting the computer's BIOS to configure Plug-and-Play
cards also may help -- to do this, change the "Plug and Play OS" option to
"no".

Here's a basic list of what you'll need to install Slackware:

Thirty-two megabytes (32MB) or more of RAM.  If you have less than 32
megabytes, we strongly suggest adding some additional RAM.  If you have
low RAM and booting the CD-ROM or boot floppies fails, you can try
installing with the Zip version of the installer, or install ZipSlack plus
the fourmeg.zip swapfile.  See the documentation in the rootdisks
directory for more information about these options. If you have 32 or more
megabytes of RAM, you'll be just fine.

You also will need some disk space to install Slackware.  For a complete
installation, you'll probably want to devote a 5GB or larger partition
completely to Slackware (you'll need more than 3GB for a full default
installation, and then you'll want extra space when you're done).  You can
make a smaller subset of Slackware fit into as little as 100 MB (see
ZipSlack as an example of that), although an average installation uses
around 2GB to 3.3GB.  The amount of disk space required varies dramatically
depending on the amount of software you've chosen to install, the number
of users on your machine, and the amount of swap space you've given
Slackware.  If you haven't installed Slackware before, you may have to
experiment.  If you've got the drive space, again, more is going to be
better than not enough.  Also, you can always install only the first
software set (the A series containing only the basic system utilities)
and then install more software later once your system is running.

If you use SCSI, Slackware supports most SCSI controllers, but you'll need
to select the correct Linux kernel.  Check the list of bootdisks in the
bootdisks/README.TXT file to see if there's a bootdisk for your
controller.  You also might consult the SCSI-HOWTO for specific
information about your controller.  You'll be able to load the appropriate
kernel from the CD-ROM without needing to use floppy disks in most cases,
but the README file in the bootdisks is still a good source of
information.

To install from the CD-ROM, you'll need a supported CD-ROM drive.  Again,
check the bootdisks/README.TXT file to see if your drive is listed.  If
it's not, you still have an excellent chance of finding a bootdisk through
trial and error that works with it anyway, since many CD-ROM drives sold
by brand-X companies contain electronics manufactured by one of the
companies that make a supported drive. Also, more and more drives made
today use the ATAPI/IDE standard -- these drives will all work fine under
Slackware.


3.  Slackware Space Requirements

Slackware divides the installable software into categories.  (in the old
days when people installed Linux from floppy disks, these were often
referred to as "disk sets")  Only the A series category (containing the
base Linux OS) is mandatory, but you can't do very much on a system that
only has the A series installed.  Here's an overview of the software
categories available for installation, along with the (approximate) amount
of drive space needed to install the entire set:

      A  The base Slackware system.  (102 MB)

     AP  Linux applications.  (161 MB)

      D  Program development tools.  (269 MB)

      E  GNU Emacs.  (74 MB)

      F  Answers to Frequently Asked Questions about Linux.  (34 MB)

      K  Linux 2.4.33.3 kernel source.  (196 MB)

    KDE  The K Desktop Environment, applications, and Qt.  (675 MB)

   KDEI  Language support for the K Desktop Environment.  (621 MB)

      L  System libraries.  (318 MB)

      N  Networking applications and utilities.  (161 MB)

      T  TeX typesetting language.  (266 MB)

    TCL  Tcl/Tk/TclX scripting languages and tools.  (19 MB)

      X  X Window System graphical user interface.  (144 MB)

    XAP  Applications for the X Window System.  (384 MB)

      Y  Classic text-based BSD games.  (6 MB)

If you have the disk space, we encourage you to do a full installation for
best results.  Otherwise, remember that you must install the A set.  You
probably also want to install the AP, D, L, and N series, as well as the KDE,
X, and XAP sets if you wish to run the X Window System. The Y series is fun,
but not required.
          

3.1  Preparing a Partition for Slackware

If you plan to install Slackware onto its own hard drive partition
(this offers optimal performance), then you'll need to prepare one or
more partitions for it.

A partition is a section of a hard drive that has been set aside for
use by an operating system.  You can have up to four primary
partitions on a single hard drive.  If you need more than that, you
can make what is called an ''extended partition.''  This is actually
a way to make one of the primary partitions contain several
sub-partitions.

Usually there won't be any free space on your hard drive.  Instead,
you will have already partitioned it for the use of other operating
systems, such as MS-DOS or Windows.  Before you can make your Linux
partitions, you'll need to remove one or more of your existing drive
partitions to make room for it.  Removing a partition destroys the
data on it, so you'll want to back it up first.

If you've got a large FAT partition that you'd like to shrink to make
space for Slackware you might consider purchasing Partition Magic, a
commercial partition re-sizing tool: http://www.symantec.com).
Anyone who installs their own operating systems will find this to be
a very valuable tool.  There are also free options such as GNU parted.
It is included on the third disc in the "extra" directory and a LiveCD
version of it can be downloaded from http://gparted.sourceforge.net/

If you plan to repartition your system manually, you'll need to back
up the data on any partitions you plan to change.  The usual tool for
deleting/creating partitions is the fdisk program.  Most PC operating
systems have a version of this tool, and if you're running DOS or
Windows it's probably best to use the repartitioning tool from that OS.
Usually DOS uses the entire drive.  Use DOS fdisk to delete the
partition.  Then create a smaller primary DOS partition, leaving
enough space to install Linux. Preferably this should be more than 4GB.
If your machine doesn't have a lot of RAM, you'll want another
partition for swap space.  The swap partition should be equal to the
amount of RAM your machine has, but should in any case be at least
128MB.  If you don't have that much drive space to spare, the more the
better to avoid running out of virtual RAM (especially if you plan on
using a graphical desktop).  You'll then need to reinstall DOS or
Windows on your new DOS partition, and then restore your backup.

We'll go into more detail about partitioning later, and you don't need
to create any new partitions yet -- just make sure you have enough free
space on the drive to do an installation (more than 4GB is ideal), or
that you have some idea about which existing partition you can use for
to install on.


3.2  Booting the Slackware CD-ROM

If your machine has a bootable CD-ROM drive (you may need to configure
this in the system's BIOS settings) then you'll be able to directly
boot the first CD-ROM.  If not, then see the README files in the bootdisks
and rootdisks directories for additional information about starting your
machine using floppy disks.  The FAQ.TXT also has good information about
alternate methods of installation.

Now it's time to boot the disc.  Put the Slackware installation CD-ROM in
your machine's CD-ROM drive and reboot to load the disc.  You'll get an
initial information screen and a prompt (called the "boot:" prompt) at the
bottom of the screen.  This is where you'll enter the name of the kernel
that you want to boot with.  With most systems you'll want to use the
standard IDE kernel, called sata.i.  To boot this, just enter sata.i on
the boot prompt:

boot: sata.i

(actually, since the sata.i kernel is the default, you could have just hit
ENTER and the machine would go ahead and load the sata.i kernel for you)

If you've got some non-standard hardware in your machine (or if sata.i
doesn't work, and you're beginning to suspect you need a different
kernel), then you'll have to enter a different option on the boot prompt.  
Slackware comes with many kernels to support a wide variety of hardware --
read the details below to select the one that's right for your machine.
You can press the <<F2>> function key to get more help on the kernel choices
and <<F3>> to view a list of the available kernels that you can boot from.

First, the "IDE" kernels (so named because they do not have drivers for
any SCSI controllers built in):



    bare.i             This is a kernel to use for installation on most 
                       IDE based PCs, with support for nearly all IDE 
                       controllers and support for IDE/ATAPI CD-ROM/DVD 
                       drives.  Most CD-ROM drives made today fall into 
                       this category.

    bareacpi.i         This is similar to the sata.i, but the kernel
                       also contains support for ACPI (Advanced Configuration
                       and Power Interface).  This performs similar power
                       management (and other) functions like APM (Advanced
                       Power Management) and is typically used on laptops to
                       control battery charging and power related functions.
                       Unlike APM which can be loaded as a kernel module,
                       ACPI must be built into the kernel.  If you find that
                       your laptop does not support APM, you may wish to
                       install using this kernel (or install the
                       kernel later on).  If you aren't using a laptop, then
                       you probably will not need ACPI (or APM) support.

    ataraid.i          This is a kernel with support for IDE RAID controllers.
                       The install disks now have preliminary support for these
                       controllers as well.  The drivers included are:
                         3ware Hardware ATA-RAID controllers.
                         Promise Fasttrak(tm) IDE RAID.
                         Highpoint 370 software RAID.
                       Many of these controllers will require some degree of
                       do-it-yourself setup before and/or after installation.

    lowmem.i           This is a really stripped-down Linux kernel which might
                       be useful for installing on IDE systems with a low
                       amount of RAM (less than 8MB).  It's also the only
                       Slackware kernel that supports old 386 machines.
                       If bare.i runs into problems, you might try this.
                       NOTE:  On systems with extremely low memory (4MB),
                       ZipSlack plus the fourmeg.zip add-on (found in the
                       zipslack directory) may boot and run even in cases
                       where lowmem.i doesn't.  If you have to use lowmem.i to
                       install, you'll then probably have to compile a custom
                       kernel with the minimal additional features that your
                       machine requires.

    old_cd.i           This is a version of bare.i with additional support
                       for old CD-ROM drives on non-standard proprietary
                       interfaces.  The CD-ROM drives supported by this
                       kernel are:
                       Aztech CDA268-01A, Orchid CD-3110, Okano/Wearnes CDD110,
                         Conrad TXC, CyCDROM CR520, CR540.
                       Sony CDU31/33a CD-ROM.
                       Sony CDU531/535 CD-ROM.
                       Philips/LMS cm206 CD-ROM with cm260 adapter card.
                       Goldstar R420 CD-ROM  (sometimes sold in a 'Reveal
                       Multimedia Kit').
                       ISP16/MAD16/Mozart CD-ROM drives.
                         (Boot time command line options (or 'append=' options
                         in /etc/lilo.conf) are:
                           isp16=<port>,<irq>,<dma>,<drive_type>
                         Valid values for drive_type include: Sanyo, Panasonic
                         (same as Sanyo), Sony and Mitsumi.  Default values are:
                         port=0x340, irq=0, dma=0, drive_type=Sanyo.)
                       NON-IDE Mitsumi CD-ROM support.
                       Optics Storage 8000 AT CD-ROM (the 'DOLPHIN' drive).
                       Sanyo CDR-H94A CD-ROM support.
                       Matsushita, Kotobuki, Panasonic, CreativeLabs
                       (Sound Blaster), Longshine and Teac NON-IDE CD-ROM
                       support.

    pportide.i         This is an extended version of bare.i with support for
                       a wide variety of parallel-port IDE devices.  Supports
                       parallel-port products from MicroSolutions,
                       Hewlett-Packard, SyQuest, Imation, Avatar, and other
                       manufacturers.

    sata.i             This is a version of bare.i with support for SATA
                       controllers made by Promise, Silicon Image, SiS,
                       ServerWorks / Apple K2, VIA, and Vitesse.


Then, the SCSI kernels (these also support IDE):

    adaptec.s          This kernel supports most Adaptec SCSI controllers,
                       including these models:
                       AHA-1510, AHA-1520, AHA-1522, AHA-1522, AHA-1740,
                       and AHA-2825.  The AIC7xxx models, which include the
                       274x EISA cards; 284x VLB cards; 2902, 2910, 293x,
                       294x, 394x, 3985 and several other PCI and motherboard
                       based SCSI controllers from Adaptec.
                       Adaptec's I2O based RAID controllers (including OEM
                         Adaptec RAID controllers used by HP and Dell,
                         Adaptec branded AAC964/5400 RAID controllers,
                         and DPT SmartRaid V cards)

    ibmmca.s           This is a kernel which supports MicroChannel
                       Architecture, found in some old IBM PS/2 machines and
                       laptops. It is a bus system similar to PCI or ISA.
                       Support for most MCA SCSI, Ethernet, and Token Ring
                       adapters is included.

    jfs.s              A version of bare.i with support for IBM's Journaled
                       Filesystem as well as Adaptec AIC7xxx SCSI support.

    raid.s             This is a kernel with support for some hardware SCSI
                       and ATA RAID controllers.  The install disks now have
                       preliminary support for these controllers as well.  The
                       drivers included are:
                         AMI MegaRAID 418, 428, 438, 466, 762, 490 and 467 SCSI
                         host adapters. (use scsi2.s for newer models)
                         Compaq Smart Array controllers.
                         Compaq Smart Array 5xxx controllers.
                         IBM ServeRAID hardware RAID controllers.
                         LSI Logic Fusion(TM) MPT devices (not really RAID, but
                           added since there was room for this driver here)
                         Mylex DAC960, AcceleRAID, and eXtremeRAID controllers.
                       Many of these controllers will require some degree of
                       do-it-yourself setup before and/or after installation.

    scsi.s             This is a SCSI kernel with support for various
                       controllers.  Note that this disk does not include
                       Adaptec support any longer -- you must use the adaptec.s
                       kernel for that.
                       This disk supports these SCSI controllers:
                         AM53/79C974 PCI SCSI support
                         BusLogic SCSI support
                         EATA ISA/EISA/PCI (DPT and generic EATA/DMA-compliant
                           boards) support
                         Initio 91XXU(W) and Initio 91XXU(W) support
                         SYM53C8XX Version 2 SCSI support
                         Qlogic ISP SCSI support
                         Qlogic QLA 1280 SCSI support

    scsi2.s            This is a SCSI kernel with support for various
                       controllers.
                       This disk supports these SCSI controllers:
                         AdvanSys SCSI support (supports all AdvanSys SCSI
                           controllers, including some SCSI cards included with
                           HP CD-R/RW drives, the Iomega Jaz Jet SCSI controller,
                           and the SCSI controller on the Iomega Buz multimedia
                           adapter)
                         ACARD 870U/W SCSI host adapter support
                         AMI MegaRAID (newer models)
                         Compaq Fibre Channel 64-bit/66Mhz HBA support
                         Domex DMX3191D SCSI Host Adapters
                         DTC 3180/3280 SCSI Host Adapters
                         Future Domain 16xx SCSI/AHA-2920A support
                         NCR53c7,8xx SCSI support
                         NCR53C8XX SCSI support

    scsi3.s            This is a SCSI kernel with support for various
                       controllers.
                       This disk supports these SCSI controllers:
                         Western Digital 7000FASST SCSI support
                         Always IN2000 SCSI support
                         Intel/ICP (former GDT SCSI Disk Array) RAID
                           Controller support
                         PCI2000I EIDE interface card
                         PCI2220i EIDE interface card
                         PSI240i EIDE interface card
                         Qlogic FAS SCSI support
                         QLogic ISP FC (ISP2100 SCSI-FCP) support
                         Seagate ST01/ST02, Future Domain TMC-885/950 SCSI
                           support.
                         SYM53c416 SCSI host adapter
                         UltraStor 14F, 24F and 34F SCSI-2 host adapters
                         Workbit NinjaSCSI-32Bi/UDE support

    speakup.s          This is like the bare.i (standard IDE) disk, but has
                       support for Speakup (and since there was space, support
                       for Adaptec's AIC7xxx SCSI controllers is also included)
                       Speakup provides access to Linux for the visually
                       impaired community.  It does this by sending console
                       output to a number of different hardware speech
                       synthesizers.  It provides access to Linux by making
                       screen review functions available.  For more information
                       about speakup and its drivers check out:
                           http://www.linux-speakup.org.
                       To use this, you'll need to specify one of the
                       supported synthesizers on the kernel's boot prompt:
                           ramdisk speakup_synth=synth
                       where 'synth' is one of the supported speech
                       synthesizers:
                         acntpc, acntsa, apolo, audptr, bns, decext, dectlk,
                         dtlk, ltlk, spkout, txprt

    xfs.s              This is an extended version of bare.i with support for
                       SGI's XFS filesystem.  Support for Adaptec's AIC7xxx
                       SCSI controllers is also included.


There is also a 2.6.17.13 install kernel that might be useful if your machine
has new hardware such as a Serial-ATA controller that isn't working with
the 2.4 kernel, or if you just want to use a newer kernel with more features:


    huge26.s           This is a 2.6.17.13 kernel with support for nearly all
                       IDE (ATA), SATA, and SCSI controllers, as well as
                       most of the filesystems supported in the standard
                       kernel.  The 2.6 kernel series is not the default
                       kernel on Slackware but does have some advantages for
                       certain users and hardware, though perhaps the
                       additional complexity causes it to sacrifice a bit of
                       stability and security.  If you install with this
                       kernel you might want to go to ftp.kernel.org later
                       and build a new kernel from the latest sources.

                       IMPORTANT!  If you install with the huge.s kernel
                       you will need to find the /extra/linux-2.6.17.13
                       directory later and install at least the
                       kernel-modules package in it to have full hardware
                       support.


You'll want to choose a kernel from the list that supports your
installation media (such as a CD-ROM drive) and the hard drive you'll be
installing to.  For example, to install from an IDE CD-ROM drive to an IDE
hard drive, you'd use the bare.i kernel.  Or, for a system with an NCR
53c810 SCSI controller, SCSI CD-ROM, and SCSI hard drive, you'd use either
the scsi.s or scsi2.s kernel (since they each have an NCR driver).

Once you've entered your kernel choice and hit ENTER, the kernel and
install program will load from the CD-ROM, and you'll arrive at the Linux
login prompt.  (You're running Linux now.  Congratulations!  :-)

To log into the system, enter the name of the superuser account and hit
Enter:

  root

Since there is no password on the install CD, you will be logged in right
away.


3.3  Using Linux fdisk to create Linux partitions

At this point, you should have a large chunk of unpartitioned space on
your hard drive that you'll be making into partitions for Slackware.

Now you're ready to create your root Linux partition.  To do this, you'll
use the Linux version of fdisk.

To need to partition a hard drive, you need to specify the
name of the device when you start fdisk.  For example:

fdisk /dev/hda          (Repartition the first IDE hard drive)
fdisk /dev/hdb          (Repartition the second IDE hard drive)
fdisk /dev/sda          (Repartition the first SCSI hard drive)
fdisk /dev/sdb          (Repartition the second SCSI hard drive)

[NOTE: If you prefer, you may also try a newer menu-driven version
 of Linux fdisk called 'cfdisk'.]

Once you've started fdisk, it will display a command prompt.  First look
at your existing partition table with the 'p' command:

  Command (m for help): p

  Disk /dev/sda: 255 heads, 63 sectors, 1024 cylinders
  Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 bytes

     Device Boot  Start    End    Blocks   Id  System
  /dev/sda1    *      1    702   5638783+  4f  Win95 FAT32 (LBA)

Here we can see that there is one DOS partition on the drive already,
starting on the first cylinder and extending to cylinder 702.  Since the
drive has 1024 cylinders, the range 703 - 1024 is free to accept a Linux
installation.

If the FAT32 partition were using the entire drive, you would have no
choice but to delete it entirely (this destroys the partition), or go back
and use some kind of partition resizing tool like GNU parted or Partition
Magic to create some free space for the installation.  If you need to
delete a partition, use the 'd' command.  You'll be asked which partition
number you want to delete -- check the partition size to make sure it's
the right one.

Next, you'll want to use the 'n' command to create a primary partition.  
This will be your root Linux partition.

  Command (m for help): n
  Command action
     e   extended
     p   primary partition (1-4)

You'll want to enter 'p' to make a primary partition.

  Partition number (1-4): 2

Here, you enter "2" since DOS is already using the first primary
partition.  Fdisk will first ask you which cylinder the partition should
start on.  Fdisk knows where your last partition left off and will suggest
the first available cylinder on the drive as the starting point for the
new partition.  Go ahead and accept this value.  Then, fdisk will want to
know what size to make the partition.  You can specify this in a couple of
ways, either by entering the ending cylinder number directly, or by
entering a size. In this case, we'll enter a size.  To do this, you need
to enter +sizeM -- in this case, +2300M.  Here's what the screen looks
like as these figures are entered:

  First cylinder (703-1024): 703
  Last cylinder or +size or +sizeM or +sizeK (33-92): +2300M

You have now created your primary Linux partition with a size of 2300 MB.  
Next, you'll want to make a Linux swap partition.  You do this the same
way.  First, enter another "n" to make a primary partition:

  Command (m for help): n
  Command action
     e   extended
     p   primary partition (1-4)

Enter "p" to select a primary partition.  Partition 1 is in use by DOS,
and you've already used partition 2 for Linux, so you'll want to enter "3"
for the new partition number:

  Partition number (1-4): 3

Since this is the last partition we plan to make on this hard drive, we'll
specify the end cylinder manually this time.  Here are the entries for
this:

  First cylinder (999-1024): 999
  Last cylinder or +size or +sizeM or +sizeK (999-1024): 1024

Now we need to set the type of partition to 82, used for Linux swap. The
reason we didn't need to set a partition type the last time is that unless
otherwise specified Linux fdisk automatically sets the type of all new
partitions to 83 (Linux).  To set the partition type, use the "t" command:

  Command (m for help): t
  Partition number (1-4): 3
  Hex code (type L to list codes): 82

Now you're ready to save the updated partition table information onto your
hard drive.  Use the "p" command again to check the results and be sure
you're satisfied with them:

  Command (m for help): p 

Disk /dev/sda: 255 heads, 63 sectors, 92 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 bytes

   Device Boot   Start      End    Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1            1      702   5638783+  4f  Win95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda2          703      999   2385638   83  Linux
/dev/sda3          999     1024    200811   82  Linux swap

This looks good, so we'll use the "w" command to write the data out to the
drive's partition table.  If you want to exit without updating the
partition table (if you've made a mistake), then you can exit without
changing anything by using the "q" command instead.

When you exit fdisk using the "w" command, fdisk recommends that you
reboot the machine to be sure that the changes you've made take effect.  
Unless you've created extended partitions, you can go ahead and run setup
without rebooting.

Note:  Sometimes fdisk will give you a message like "This drive has more
than 1024 cylinders" and warn about possible problems using partitions
with DOS.  This is because MS-DOS suffers from a limitation that only
allows access to the first 1024 cylinders on a hard drive.  At one time,
LILO used the standard BIOS routines to read sectors, so this was a
limitation of LILO, too. Luckily modern versions of LILO use the LBA32
method of accessing sectors, so this limitation no longer applies.  If you
see the warning from fdisk, you can safely ignore it.


4.0  Installing the Slackware distribution

Now that you have one or more Linux partitions, you are now ready to begin
installing software onto your hard drive. To start the Slackware install
program, enter the command "setup" and hit enter:

  # setup

The installer will start up with a full-color menu on your screen with the
various options needed to install Slackware.  In general, you'll want to
start with the ADDSWAP option.  Even if you've already created and
activated a swap partition manually, you'll need to run this so Slackware
adds the swap partition to your /etc/fstab file.  If you don't add it,
your system won't use the swap space when you reboot.

Installing a typical system involves running the following options from
the setup menu in this order:  ADDSWAP, TARGET, SOURCE, SELECT, INSTALL,
and CONFIGURE. You may also start with KEYMAP if you have a non-US
keyboard layout, or with TARGET if you don't want to use a swap partition.

For the rest of this section, we'll walk through a typical installation 
process.


4.1 The ADDSWAP option:

First, we select the ADDSWAP option.  The system will scan for partitions
marked as type "Linux swap" and will ask if you want to use them for swap
space.  Answer YES, and the system will format the partition and then make
it active for swapping.  Once it's finished, setup will display a message
showing the line it will add to /etc/fstab to configure the swap partition
at boot time.  Hit enter to continue, and setup will go on to the TARGET
section of the install.

    NOTE: If you created a partition to use for swap space, but setup
doesn't see it when it scans your drives, it's possible that the partition
type hasn't been set in the partition table.  Use the Linux "fdisk"
program to list your partitions like this:

    # fdisk -l

    Disk /dev/sda: 255 heads, 63 sectors, 1024 cylinders
    Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 bytes
 
       Device Boot   Start      End    Blocks   Id  System
    /dev/sda1            1      702   5638783+  4f  Win95 FAT32 (LBA)
    /dev/sda2          703      999   2385638   83  Linux
    /dev/sda3          999     1024    200811   83  Linux

In this case, if /dev/sda3 is meant to be a Linux swap partition, you'll
need to start fdisk on drive /dev/sda:

    # fdisk /dev/sda

    Command (m for help): t
    Partition number (1-4): 3
    Hex code (type L to list codes): 82

    Command (m for help): w

This will change the third partition to type 82 (Linux swap) and write the
partition table out to /dev/sda.

When you run setup again, the ADDSWAP option should detect the Linux swap
partition.


4.2 The TARGET option:

The next option on the setup menu is TARGET.  This lets you select which
partition(s) you'd like to install Slackware on, and will format them
using a Linux filesystem.  Depending on which kernel you chose to boot
with, your filesystem choices may include ext2 (the traditional Linux
filesystem), ext3 (a journaling version of ext2), and Reiserfs (the first
journaling filesystem written for Linux; it stores files in a balanced
tree).

When you select the TARGET option, the system will scan for "Linux"
partitions on your hard drives.  If it doesn't find any, you'll need to
make sure that you've created partitions using the fdisk program, and that
the partitions are labeled as type 83 (Linux).  This is the same process
shown above.  If you've created one or more partitions for Slackware using
Linux's fdisk program then you shouldn't have any problems, since Linux
fdisk (and cfdisk) sets all new partitions to type 83 (Linux) by default.

You will see a menu listing all the Linux partitions.  Use the arrow keys
to select the partition you'd like to use for your root (or primary) Linux
partition and hit enter.  The setup program will then ask if you'd like to
format the partition, and what type of filesystem to use.  If this is a
new installation of Slackware, you'll need to do this.  Otherwise, if you
are installing software onto an existing Linux system, you don't need to
format the partition.  For example, the partition might be used as your
/home and contains home directories that you want to keep.  If you choose
not to format a partition, you'll see "partition will not be reformatted"
on the top of the screen as you confirm your choice, so that there can be
no question about it.

There are a few options you need to know about when you format Linux
partitions.  First, you'll need to decide whether or not you'd like to
check the partition for bad blocks when you do the format.  This is
usually not necessary unless you know the drive in question has problems.  
Checking takes quite a while longer than a normal format (and most IDE
drives do self-checking anyway), so you'll probably want to just go ahead
and use the "Format" menu option to format the drive without checking.  
If you have drive problems later on (and can't just replace the hard drive
with a better one), then you might want to go back and try again using the
"Check" option to map out the bad sectors on the drive.

If you are using an ext2 or ext3 filesystem, once you've picked your
formatting mode, setup will prompt you to provide the inode density.  On
Linux filesystems, entries called "inodes" store the names of files and
the locations of the blocks that make up the file.  You need at least one
inode for each file, so if you run out of inodes then you can't make any
new files, even if there seems to be plenty of space on the drive.  
Inodes themselves take up space on your drive, so you need to consider how
you will use the partition.  Usually, the default value of one inode for
every 4096 bytes on the drive is fine.  But if you're planning to use the
drive for something that uses many small files, then you may wish to
increase the inode density to one inode for every 2048 (or even 1024)
bytes.  Once you've selected the inode density, setup will go ahead and
format your root Linux partition. You will then return to the menu showing
the partitions available for Linux.

You'll notice that the partition you just formatted is now listed as "in
use."  If you made some other partitions for Slackware, you'll need to go
through the same process of formatting them, selecting whether or not to
check for bad blocks, and setting a reasonable inode density.  With these
partitions there will be an additional step -- you'll need to select where
you'd like to put the partition in your directory tree.

MS-DOS/Windows assigns a letter such as A:, B:, C:, etc, to each device.
Unlike DOS, Linux makes your devices visible somewhere under the root
directory (/).  You might have /dev/hda1 for your root partition (/) and
put /dev/hda2 somewhere underneath it, such as under your /home directory.  
When prompted for a mount location, just enter a directory such as /home,
and hit enter.  As you format each additional partition and place it in
the filesystem tree, you'll be returned to the partition selection menu.  
When you've prepared all of your Linux partitions, you'll go on to the
SOURCE option.


4.3 The SOURCE option:

The next menu option is SOURCE, where you select the physical media from
which to install Slackware.

SOURCE displays a menu offering the choice of installation from CD-ROM, a
hard drive partition, NFS, or a directory (mounted manually).  You'll want
to make sure your Slackware CD-ROM is in your drive, and select the first
option:

  "Install from a Slackware CD-ROM"

Next, the system will ask you if you'd like to scan for your CD-ROM drive
or pick manually from a list.  (unless you're trying to show off to your
friends, go ahead and let setup scan for the CD-ROM drive automatically)  
Setup will then try to access the Slackware CD-ROM.  If this is
successful, setup will tell you that it found and mounted a CD-ROM on a
Linux device such as /dev/hdc.  If the CD-ROM was successful found, you
may skip ahead to the SELECT section below, otherwise read on for some
CD-ROM troubleshooting tips.

If setup is not successful in accessing the CD-ROM drive, you'll need to
figure out why before you can go on. The most common reason for this is
that you used a kernel that doesn't support the CD-ROM drive.  If that's
the case, you need to restart the installation CD-ROM and specify a kernel
that contains a driver to support your CD-ROM drive (if the drive is
connected to a SCSI card, for example, you'll need to use a kernel with
support for that card).  You can also try switching to a different console
with Alt-F2 and mounting the CD-ROM drive manually and then installing
from a pre-mounted directory (if you prefer a hands-on approach).

If you have no idea which device an IDE CD-ROM drive is connected to, you
should have the system scan for it.  You also can look at the messages
generated by the system as it boots -- you should see a message that
Slackware detected your CD-ROM drive along with information about what
type of drive it is.  You can look at these messages by using the right
shift key together with the PageUp and PageDown keys to scroll the screen
up and down.  If you don't see a message about your drive, you're probably
using the wrong kernel. If you're not sure which kernel you need to use,
try these steps:

If you have a CD-ROM drive is connected to a SCSI controller, you'll
probably need to specify one of the SCSI kernels like adaptec.s, scsi.s,
or scsi2.s.  See the list of SCSI kernels in section 3.2.

If you have an IDE controller, you should have no problems, but if you do
try IDE (.i) kernels. Watch the screen for a message saying that Slackware
detected your CD-ROM drive.

If your machine is a little older than average, you can try the old_cd.i
kernel.  This contains support for a bunch of older CD-ROM drives that
predate the ATAPI/IDE standard.  Many of these drives came with a
proprietary interface card, or were connected to sound cards (sometimes
bundled with the CD-ROM drive).

If Slackware still won't detect your drive, look at the file BOOTING.TXT
on the CD-ROM.  This contains a list of extra parameters you can pass to
the kernel when you boot the Slackware CD-ROM.  These parameters can be
handy to force hardware detection when the autoprobing fails.  For
example, you can tell the kernel to look for a Sony CDU31a drive by
entering the following command line on the kernel's first prompt:

   ramdisk cdu31a=0x1f88,0,PAS

This tells the kernel that you've got a Sony CDU31a drive connected to an
interface card at address 0x1f88, interrupts are disabled, and the
interface card is a Pro Audio Spectrum.


4.4 The SELECT option:

The SELECT option lets you select software to install.

When you start the SELECT option, you'll see a menu where you can choose
which categories of software you're interested in installing. The first
series (called the A series) contains the base filesystem structure and
binaries that are crucial for your system to boot and run properly.  You
must install the A series.  Make sure that at least the selection for
series A has an [X] next to it.  Most of the other choices will also have
an [X] next to them, and while you can use the cursor keys and the space
bar to unselect items to save space (see the space requirements above for
details), you're better off with a complete installation if you have the
space for it.

Once you've selected the general categories of software you wish to
install, hit enter and you'll go on to the INSTALL option.


4.5 The INSTALL option:

This option actually installs the selected packages to the hard drive.

The first question the INSTALL option will ask is what type of prompting
you'd like to use during the installation process.  A menu will show
several options, including "full", "newbie", "menu", "expert", "custom",
"tagpath", and "help".  The help option gives detailed information on each
of the choices.

Most people will want to use "full".  Others might want "menu", "expert"
or "newbie" mode.  We'll cover each of these in detail now.

The first option to consider is "full".  If you select this mode, then
setup assumes you want to install all the packages in each selected series
and installs them all without further prompting.  This is fast and easy.  
Of course, depending on which software categories you've chosen, this can
use a lot of drive space.  If you use this option, you should be
installing to a partition with at least 2GB free (and hopefully more like
3GB or so) to insure that you don't run out of drive space during the
installation process. Because Linux allows you to split your installation
across multiple partitions, the installer cannot know ahead of time
whether the packages you've chosen to install will fit your partitioning
scheme.  Therefore, it is up to you to make sure that there is enough
room.

The "newbie" mode (which was formerly known as "normal" mode) installs all
of the required packages in each series.  For each of the non-required
packages (one by one) you'll get a menu where you can answer YES (install
the package), NO (do not install the package), or SKIP (skip ahead to the
next series).  You'll also see a description of what the package does and
how much space it will require to help you decide whether you need it or
not.  The "newbie" mode is verbose, requires input after each package, and
can be tedious.  It certainly takes a lot longer to install using newbie
mode, and (in spite of the name), it is easier to make mistakes in newbie
mode than by simply doing a full installation.  Still, using it is a good
way to get a basic education about what software goes into the system
since you actually get a chance to read the package descriptions.  With a
full installation most of the package descriptions will fly by too quickly
to read.

If you can decide which packages you want from less information, the
"menu" or "expert" options are a good choice, and go much faster than a
"newbie" mode installation.  These options display a menu before
installing each series and let you toggle items on or off with the
spacebar. In "menu" mode, certain packages that are considered crucial
will be installed by default, and won't be shown on your selection menu.  
The "expert" option is similar to the "menu" option, but assumes you want
control over every package that could get installed. The "expert" mode
lets you toggle packages individually, allowing the user to make bad
decisions like turning off crucial packages or installing a package that's
part of a larger set of software without installing the other parts.  If
you know exactly what you need, the "expert" mode offers the maximum
amount of flexibility.  If you don't know what you need, using the
"expert" mode will allow you to install a system that's missing crucial
files.  In either case ("menu" or "expert"), when you have selected the
packages you want, you hit enter and all the selected software from the
series is installed automatically.  This process is repeated for each
software series.

The "custom" and "tagpath" options are only used if you've created
"tagfiles" for installation.  In the first directory of each disk set is a
file called "tagfile" containing a list of all the packages in that
series, as well as a flag marking whether the package should be installed
automatically, skipped, or the user should be prompted to decide.  This is
useful for situations where you need to install large numbers of machines
(such as in a computer lab), but most users will not need to create
tagfiles.  If you are interested in using them, look at one of the
tagfiles with an editor.

If you're new to Slackware, and you have enough drive space, you'll
probably want to select the "full" option as the easiest way to install.  
Otherwise, the "menu" option is another good choice for most beginners.  
If you think you need (or would just like to see) the extra information
offered by the "newbie" mode, go ahead and use that.

Once you have selected a prompting mode, the system begins the
installation process.  If you've chosen "menu" or "expert" mode, you'll
see a menu of software to choose from right away -- use the arrow keys and
spacebar to pick what you need, and then hit enter to install it.  If
you've chosen the "newbie" mode, the installation will begin immediately,
continuing until it finds optional packages.  You'll get a selection menu
for each of these.  If you selected "full", now it's time to sit back and
watch the packages install.

If you've selected too much software, it's possible that your hard drive
may run out of space during installation.  If this happens, you'll know it
because you'll see error messages on the screen as setup tries to install
the packages.  In such a case, your only choice is to reinstall selecting
less software.  You can avoid this problem by choosing a reasonable amount
of software to begin with, and installing more software later once your
system is running. Installing software on a running Slackware system is as
easy as it is during the initial installation -- just type the following
command to mount the Slackware CD-ROM:

  mount /dev/cdrom /mnt/cdrom

Then go to the directory with the packages you want to install, and use
the install-packages script:

  cd /mnt/cdrom/slackware/xap
  sh install-packages

Other options for installing packages later on include "installpkg" and
"pkgtool".  For more information about these, see the man pages ("man 
installpkg", "man pkgtool").

Once you have installed the software on your system, you'll go on to the
CONFIGURE option.


4.6 The CONFIGURE option:

The setup's CONFIGURE option does the basic configuration your system
needs, such as creating links for your mouse and modem, setting your
timezone, and more.

The CONFIGURE option will first ensure that you've installed a usable
Linux kernel on your hard drive.  The installation program should suggest
installing the same kernel from the CD-ROM that you used for the
installation process, and you should go ahead and do this by accepting the
default choices presented in the dialog screen.  There is a
generic kernel (kernel-ide) that comes with the A series that is actually
the same as the sata.i kernel, but the best kernel to install to your hard
drive is the one that you used to do the installation.  If you used a
bootdisk rather than booting the CD-ROM, you should install the kernel
from your bootdisk by selecting the "bootdisk" option on the kernel
installation menu. The menu will prompt you to re-insert your installation
bootdisk and hit enter, and then setup will copy the kernel from the
bootdisk to your hard drive.

If you don't want to use the recommended kernel, you can pick any kernel
from the menu of kernels available on the CD-ROM, but if you install the
wrong kernel the machine likely won't boot -- it's really a much better
plan to install the same kernel you installed the system with. Since you
used it to successfully install Slackware, you know it will work on the
installed system as well.

NOTE:  If you install a kernel on your system that doesn't boot correctly,
you can still boot your system with the CD-ROM. To do this, you need to
enter some information on the boot prompt.  For example, if your root
partition is on /dev/hda1, you'd enter this to boot your system:

        sata.i root=/dev/hda1 noinitrd ro

The "noinitrd" option tells the kernel not to load the installer image
into RAM, and the "ro" option makes the root partition initially load as
read-only so Linux can safely check the filesystem.

You can also start the system with an installation bootdisk, but the
syntax is slightly different:

        mount root=/dev/hda1 ro

Once you've installed a kernel, you'll be asked if you want to make a
bootdisk for your new system.  This is a very good idea, so insert a
formatted floppy disk and use the "Create" option to create a bootdisk for
your system.

Next, you'll be asked if you have a modem.  If you do, pick the device
from the list shown.  This will make a link in /dev pointing to the
correct device, such as /dev/modem -> /dev/ttyS1.  Similarly, you'll be
asked what type of mouse you have.  Pick the mouse type from the menu (or
hit cancel if you don't have a mouse), and setup will create a /dev/mouse
link.  Most computers use a PS/2 mouse, which is the first choice.

After this, other installation scripts will run depending on which
packages you've installed.  For instance, if you installed the tcpip package
you'll be asked if you want to configure your network.


4.7 LILO

LILO is the Linux Loader, a program that allows you to boot Linux (and
other operating systems) directly from your hard drive.  If you installed
the LILO package, you now have an opportunity to set it up.

Installing LILO can be dangerous.  If you make a mistake it's possible to
make your hard drive unbootable.  If you're new to Linux, it might be a
good idea to skip LILO installation and use the bootdisk to start your
system at first.  You can install LILO later using the 'liloconfig'
command after you've had a chance to read the information about it in
/usr/lib/lilo.  If you do decide to go ahead and install LILO, be sure you
have a way to boot all the operating systems on your machine in case
something goes wrong.  If you can't boot Windows again, use the DOS command
"FDISK /MBR" to remove LILO from your master boot record.  (You can use
a Windows Startup Disk for this)

The easiest way to set your machine up with LILO is to pick the "simple"
choice on the LILO installation menu.  This will examine your system and
try to set up LILO to be able to boot Windows (DOS) and Linux partitions
that it finds.  If it locates the OS/2 Boot Manager, it will ask if you'd
like to configure the Linux partition so that you can add it to the Boot
Manager menu.  (NOTE: If you use a disk overlay program for large IDE hard
drives such as EZ-DRIVE, please see the warning below before installing
LILO)

The "expert" option gives you much more control over the configuration
of LILO.  If you decide to use the "expert" option, here's how you do
it.  LILO uses a configuration file called /etc/lilo.conf to hold the
information about your bootable partitions -- the "expert" LILO
installation lets you direct the construction of this file.  To create
the file, first select BEGIN to enter the basic information about 
where to install LILO.  The first menu will ask if you have extra
parameters you'd like passed to the Linux kernel at boot time.  If you
need any extra parameters enter them here.  

Then you'll be asked if you wish to use the framebuffer console.  The
1024x768x256 console setting is a nice one to use in most cases, but you
may need to experiment to find the nicest setting for your card.  Some
look terrible at modes larger than 800x600 because of the default refresh
rates, but at least ATI cards are known to look great at 1024x768x256.  
If you want to use the framebuffer console, select a mode here.

Next, decide where you want LILO installed.  Usually you'll want to
install LILO on the boot drive's MBR (master boot record).  If you use a
different boot manager (like the one that comes with OS/2) then you'll
want to install LILO on your root Linux partition and then add that
partition to the boot manager menu using its configuration tool. Under
OS/2, this is the fdisk program.

NOTE:  If you use the EZ-DRIVE utility (a diskmanager program supplied
with some large IDE drives to make them usable with DOS) then do not
install LILO to the MBR.  If you do, you may disable EZ-DRIVE and render
your disk unusable with DOS.  Instead, install LILO to the superblock of
your root Linux partition, and use fdisk to make the partition bootable.
(With MS-DOS fdisk, this is called setting the "active" partition)

The next menu lets you set a delay before the system boots into the
default operating system.  If you're using LILO to boot more than one
operating system (such as DOS and Linux) then you'll need to set a delay
so you can pick which OS you'd like to boot.  If you press the SHIFT key
during the delay, LILO will display a prompt where you can type a label
(typically Windows or Linux) to select which OS to boot.  If you set the
delay to 'Forever', the system will display a prompt at boot time and wait
for you to enter a choice.

Next, you need to add entries for each operating system that LILO can
boot.  The first entry you make will be the machine's default operating
system.  You can add either a DOS, Linux, or Windows partition first.  
For example, let's say you select "Linux".  The system will display your
Linux partitions and ask which one of them you'd like to boot.  Enter the
name (like /dev/hda1) of your root Linux partition.  Then, you'll be
prompted to enter a label.  This is the name you will enter at the boot
time LILO prompt to select which partition you want to boot.  A good
choice for this is "Linux".

Adding a DOS or Windows partition is similar.  To add a Windows partition
to the LILO configuration file, select the Windows option.  The system will
display your FAT/NTFS partitions and ask which one of them you'd like to
boot with LILO.  Enter the name of your primary Windows partition.  Then
enter a label for the partition, like "Windows".  Once you've added all of
your bootable partitions, install LILO by selecting the "Install" option.


4.8 Networking

Another configuration menu allows you to configure your machine's
networking setup.  First, enter a hostname for your machine.  The default
hostname after installation is "darkstar," but you can enter any name you
like.  Next, you'll be asked to provide a domain name. If you're running a
stand-alone machine (possibly using a dialup link to an Internet Service
Provider) then you can pick any name you like. The default domain name is
"example.net".  If you are going to add the machine to a local network,
you'll need to use the same domain name as the rest of the machines on
your network.  If you're not sure what this is, contact your network
administrator for help.  Once you've specified the hostname and domain
name, you'll be asked which type of setup you would like: "static IP",
"DHCP", or "loopback".

Loopback 
-------- 

This is the simplest type of setup, defining only a mechanism for the
machine to contact itself.  If you do not have an Ethernet card, use this
selection.  This is also the correct selection if you'll be using a PCMCIA
(laptop) Ethernet card and want to set up your networking in
/etc/pcmcia/network.opts.  (you could also configure a PCMCIA card using
the "static IP" or "DHCP" options, but in that case will not be able to
"hotplug" the card)  Finally, this is the right option to use if you have
a modem, and will be connecting via dialout and PPP.  You'll select
loopback now, and then set up your phone connection later using pppsetup
or kppp.

Static IP
---------

If your machine has an Ethernet card with a static IP address assigned to
it, you can use this option to set it up.  You'll be prompted to enter
your machine's IP address, netmask, the gateway IP address, and the
nameserver IP address.  If you don't know what numbers you should be
using, ask the person in charge of the network to help.  After entering
your information, you'll be asked if you want to probe for your network
card. This is a good idea, so say yes.  Confirm that the settings are
correct, and your networking will be configured to use a static IP
address.

DHCP
----

DHCP stands for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, and is a system where
your machine contacts a server to obtain its IP and DNS information.  
This is the usual way to get an IP address with broadband connections like
cable modems (although some more expensive business-class broadband
connections may assign static IP addresses).  It is very easy to set up a
DHCP connection -- just select the option.  Some providers will give you a
DHCP hostname (Cox is one that does) that you'll also need to enter in
order to identify yourself to the network.  If you don't have a DHCP
hostname, just leave it blank and hit ENTER. After entering your
information, you'll be asked if you want to probe for your network card.
This is a good idea, so say yes.  Confirm that the settings are correct,
and your networking will be configured to use DHCP.

Once you've completed all the configuration menus, you can exit setup and
reboot your machine.  Simply press ctrl-alt-delete and the kernel will
kill any programs that are running, unmount your filesystems and restart
the machine.


5. Booting the installed Slackware system

If you've installed LILO, make sure you don't have a disk in your floppy
drive -- when your machine reboots it should start LILO. Otherwise, insert
the bootdisk made for your system during the configuration process and use
it to boot.  Also, make sure to remove the CD-ROM to avoid booting it, or
disable your machine's CD-ROM booting feature in the BIOS settings.

The kernel will go through the startup process, detecting your hardware,
checking your partitions and starting various processes. Eventually you'll
be given a login prompt:

darkstar login:

Log into the new system as "root".
        
        Welcome to Linux 2.4.33.3.

        darkstar login: root
        Last login: Sun Aug 11 19:33:31 -0700 2006 on tty3.

        Linux 2.4.33.3.
        You have new mail.

        darkstar: ~#


6. Post-installation configuration

Once the system is running, most of the work is complete.  However, there
are still a few programs you'll need to configure.  We'll cover the most
important of these in this section.

6.1 /etc/rc.d/rc.modules

This file contains a list of Linux kernel modules.  A kernel module is
like a device driver under DOS.  You can think of the /etc/rc.d/rc.modules
file as similar to DOS's CONFIG.SYS.  The file specifies which modules the
system needs to load to support the machine's hardware.  After booting
your machine, you may find that some of your hardware isn't detected
(usually an Ethernet card).  To provide the support, you'll need to load
the correct kernel module. Note that modern Linux kernels include a
feature that allows the kernel to load its own modules, called KMOD.  
This will load many modules automatically without any need to edit
rc.modules, and when using KMOD it might be better to tell KMOD how to
load the modules you want automatically rather than loading them at boot
time with rc.modules. This is an advanced topic, and outside the scope of
this document. If you're interested in this, "man modules.conf" is a good
place to start reading.  In any case, it's best to not edit rc.modules
unless you find that the modules you want to use are not being loaded
automatically by KMOD and/or hotplug.  You can see a list of the modules
that were loaded with the "lsmod" command.

Anyway, back to the matter at hand -- using rc.modules to load kernel
modules. To do this, edit the /etc/rc.d/rc.modules file with a text editor
such as "vi", "pico", or "emacs".  You'll see a list of modules, one per
line.  Most of these lines will have a '#' at the beginning of them which
causes the line to be ignored.  As an example, let's say your machine has
a SoundBlaster Live! sound card. To activate support for this card, find
the line with 'emu10k1' (the name of the driver for Live! cards) in it,
and remove the '#' from the beginning of the line -- then save the changed
file.  When you reboot the system, the module will load and the kernel
will recognize the card.  You could also load the support manually after
saving the file, avoiding the need for a reboot:

  modprobe emu10k1

There's a lot more information out there about kernel modules, including
lists of module names and the cards they support, as well as extra options
you can can add to the module lines to configure the hardware in different
ways.  The kernel's documentation in /usr/src/linux/Documentation has a
lot of good information (see especially the kmod.txt file) as does the
Module-HOWTO found in /usr/doc/Linux-HOWTOs/Module-HOWTO.


6.2 Configuring the X Window System

Configuring X can be a complex task.  The reason for this is the vast
numbers of video cards available for the PC architecture, most of which
use different programming interfaces.  Luckily, most cards today support
basic video standards known as VESA, and if your card is among them you'll
be able to start X using the "startx" command right out of the box.

If this doesn't work with your card, or if you'd like to take advantage of
the high-performance features of your video card such as hardware
acceleration or 3-D hardware rendering, then you'll need to reconfigure X.

To configure X, you'll need to make an /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.  This file
contains lots of details about your video hardware, mouse, and monitor.  
It's a very complex configuration file, but fortunately there are several
programs to help create one for you.  We'll mention a few of them here:

xorgsetup
------------

This is a simple menu driven frontend that's similar in feel to the
Slackware installer.  It simply tells the X server to take a look at the
card, and then set up the best initial configuration file it can make
based on the information it gathers.  The generated /etc/X11/xorg.conf
file should be a good starting point for most systems (and should work
without modification).

xorgconfig
----------

This is a text-based X configuration program that's designed for the
advanced system administrator.  Here's a sample walkthrough using
xorgconfig.  First, start the program:

# xorgconfig

This will present a screenful of information about xorgconfig.  To
continue, press enter.  xorgconfig will ask you to verify you have set
your PATH correctly.  It should be fine, so go ahead and hit enter.

Next, select your mouse from the menu presented.  If you don't see your
serial mouse listed, pick the Microsoft protocol -- it's the most common
and will probably work.  Next xorgconfig will ask you about using
ChordMiddle and Emulate3Buttons.  You'll see these options described in
detail on the screen.  Use them if the middle button on your mouse doesn't
work under X, or if your mouse only has two buttons (Emulate3Buttons lets
you simulate the middle button by pressing both buttons simultaneously).  
Then, enter the name of your mouse device.  The default choice,
/dev/mouse, should work since the link was configured during Slackware
setup.  If you're running GPM (the Linux mouse server) in repeater mode,
you can set your mouse type to /dev/gpmdata to have X get information
about the mouse through gpm.  In some cases (with busmice especially) this
can work better, but most users shouldn't do this.

xorgconfig will ask you about enabling special key bindings. If you need
this say "y".  Most users can say "n" -- enter this if you're not sure.

In the next section you enter the sync range for your monitor. To start
configuring your monitor, press enter.  You will see a list of monitor
types -- choose one of them.  Be careful not to exceed the specifications
of your monitor.  Doing so could damage your hardware. Specify the
vertical sync range for your monitor (you should find this in the manual
for the monitor).  xorgconfig will ask you to enter strings to identify
the monitor type in the xorg.conf file. Enter anything you like on these
3 lines (including nothing at all).

Now you have the opportunity to look at the database of video card types.  
You'll want to do this, so say "y", and select a card from the list shown.  
If you don't see your exact card, try selecting one that uses the same
chipset and it will probably work fine.  Then choose an X server.  You
should have installed the server recommended for your card, but if not,
you can always go back and install that later.  Choose option (5) to use
the X server recommended for your video card's chipset.

Next, tell xorgconfig how much RAM you have on your video card.  
xorgconfig will want you to enter some more descriptive text about your
video card.  If you like, you can enter descriptions on these three lines.

You'll be asked next about your RAMDAC and clock generator settings. You
may enter them if you know the values, but the X server will probably
successfully probe for these values.  The next option is to run X
-probeonly to find the clock settings for the card.  You can try this, and
if it works it will speed up X's startup time.  If it fails, it's not
usually a big problem.  If it causes problems with your card, don't use
it.

You'll then be asked which display resolutions you want to use.  Again,
going with the provided defaults should be fine to start with.  Later on,
you can edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and rearrange the modes so 1024x768
(or whatever mode you like) is the default.

At this point, the xorgconfig program will ask if you'd like to save the
current configuration file.  Answer yes, and the X configuration file is
saved, completing the setup process.  You can start X now with the
'startx' command.

6.3 Hardware acceleration with X

If you've used xorgsetup or xorgconfig to configure for your card, and
it's one that can take advantage of X's direct rendering support,
you'll certainly want to enable this.  First, make sure that the AGP GART
device is loaded in /etc/rc.d/rc.modules if you are using an AGP video
card.  Then, edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  Make sure that the glx and
dri modules are being loaded:

   Load       "glx"
   Load       "dri"

These lines will probably already be in place.

Next, if you'd like non-root users to be able to enjoy direct rendering
support, add this to the end of your xorg.conf:

Section "DRI"
    Mode 0666
EndSection

For complete information about hardware rendering support in X, see
the documentation in /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/doc, especially the README.DRI
document.


6.4 User Accounts

You should make a user account for yourself.  Using "root" as your
everyday account is dangerous, and is considered bad form (at the very
least) since you can accidently damage your system if you mistype a
command.  If you're logged in as a normal user, the effects of bad
commands will be much more limited.  Normally you'll only log in as root
to perform system administration tasks, such as setting or changing the
root password, installing, configuring, or removing system software, and
creating or deleting user accounts.

To make an account for yourself, use the 'adduser' program.  To start it,
type 'adduser' at a prompt and follow the instructions.  Going with the
default selections for user ID, group ID, and shell should be just fine
for most users.  You'll want to add your user to the cdrom, audio, video
and scanner groups if you have a computer with multimedia peripherals and
want to be able to access these. Add these group names, comma separated,
at the follwing prompt:

  Additional groups (comma separated) []:


Passwords and security
----------------------

When choosing passwords for a Linux system that is connected to a network
you should pick a strong password.  However, passwords only help protect a
system from remote trespassing.  It's easy to gain access to a system if
someone has physical access to the console.

If you forget the root password, you can use a rescue disk to mount your
root partition and edit the files containing the password information.  
If you have a bootable CD-ROM drive, you can use the first installation
CD-ROM as a rescue disk.
Otherwise, use the bootdisk that you used to install Slackware Linux
to load the "rescue.dsk" rootdisk image. At the prompt, you can manually
mount the root Linux partition from your hard drive and remove the root
password.  For example, if your root linux partition is /dev/hda2, here
are the commands to use after logging into the rescue disk as "root":

  mount /dev/hda2 /mnt
  cd /mnt/etc

Next, you'll need to edit the "shadow" file to remove root's password.
Editors which might be available include "vi", "emacs", and "pico". "vi"
and "emacs" might be more of an adventure than you need unless you've used
them before.  The "pico" editor is easy for beginners to use.

  pico shadow

At the top of the file, you'll see a line starting with root.  Right after
root, you'll notice the encrypted password information between two colons.  
Here's how root's line in /etc/shadow might look:

root:EnCl6vi6y2KjU:10266:0:::::

To remove root's password, you use the editor to erase the scrambled text
between the two colons, leaving a line that looks like this:

root::10266:0:::::

Save the file and reboot the machine, and you'll be able to log in as root
without a password.  The first thing you should do is set a new password
for root, especially if your machine is connected to a network.


Here are some pointers on avoiding weak passwords:

1. Never use your name (or anyone's name), birthdate, license plate,
   or anything relating to yourself as a password.  Someone trying
   to break into your machine might be able to look these things up.

2. Don't use a password that is any variation of your login name.

3. Do not use words from the dictionary (especially not "password" :)
   or syllables of two different words concatenated together as your
   password.  There are automated programs floating around on the net
   that can try them all in a short time.

4. Do not use a number (like 123456) or a password shorter than six
   characters.


The strongest passwords are a mix of letters, numbers, and symbols.  
Here are some examples of strong passwords (but don't use these ;-):

     *^5g!:1?        ()lsp@@9       i8#6#1*x       ++c$!jke      *2zt/mn1

In practice, any password containing one or two words, a number (or two),
and a symbol (or two) should be quite secure.


7. For more information

For more information, visit our web site at http://www.slackware.com

To shop for fine Slackware products, please visit http://store.slackware.com

        Email: info@slackware.com          (Information or general inquiries)
        FTP:   ftp://ftp.slackware.com     (Updates)
        WWW:   http://www.slackware.com    (News)


8. Trademarks

Slackware is a registered trademark of Slackware Linux, Inc.
Linux is a Registered Trademark of Linus Torvalds.
All trademarks are property of their respective owners.

